February 2, 2012

part|stem-PROG:
1. follows aux or mod
(the dog is barking)
2.  can follow aux adv, aux qn, aux post, aux neg
(the baby is now crying)
(the babies are both crying) 
(the babies are all crying)
(the baby is not crying)
3. can follow aux and prepositional phrase
(the bird is in the tree chirping)
(the daughter is down on the beach building a very nice sandcastle)
4.  multiples must have coord
(they were dancing and talking all night long)


n:gerund|stem-PROG:
1.  follows a prep or prep adv
(she went back to digging the hole to plant the tree)
(he got a ticket for breaking the law)
2.  functions as the direct object 
(there was some vomiting)
(the best part was waking up and eating a big breakfast) 
3.  follows a verb or verb plus verb participle
(I remember making sounds)
(the farmer went on planting his tree)
(I like playing games in the water with him)
*** PROBLEM *** -- need to distinguish sentences like this where the -ing word should be adj:part-PROG not n:gerund-PROG -- "she kneels, trying look under the couch" ****
4.  may follow a determiner unless the determiner is followed by another noun
(they made her do all the cooking and cleaning)
5.  follows a possessive determiner
(in the middle of his digging, there's the car again)
6.  functions as the subject
(knitting is my favorite hobby)
7.  follows a conjunction
(I spread the bread with peanut butter after getting out a knife)


adj:part|stem-PROG:
1.  after a noun, modifying it
(a neighbor, hearing her, tries to help)
2.  comes between a det and a noun
(the man was startled by the breaking window)
3.  in initial positions of incomplete utterances 
(picking raspberries and eating them all)
4.  head of subordinate clause
(they take off, driving down the road)
(there's the car again and the couple again, going the same way)
5.  following v and predicate nominative
(Cinderella is a young girl living with her father)
(she had a hard time communicating to anybody)
(there's a couple, fighting)
6.  before a noun, modifying it
(hearing impairment)
(diving board)
(walking distance)


part|stem-PERF
1.  follows an aux 
(the dog was brushed)
(he had seen this before)
2.  can follow aux adv, aux qn, aux post, aux neg, aux co
(the flower was already planted)
(they had not noticed)
(we have all received invitations)
(the stepmother had you_know harmed Cinderella)
3.  can follow mod aux
(I should have taken that umbrella)
4.  multiples must have coord
(the ball had smashed the window and broken the lamp) 


adj:part|stem-PERF
1.  comes before a noun
(she held her stuffed animal)
(try to find related words)
(I had a broken arm when I was a little girl)
2.  comes after a noun or pronoun (can have intervening adv)
(a young boy named Johnny was kicking a ball)
(Carl looks cute with the mother's beads strung over his head)
3.  comes after a verb
(mother did not look concerned)


cop vs. aux:
if "to be" verb is followed by a word that can be a participle, code as aux


prep vs. adv
if a noun or pronoun follows a word that could be prep or adv:loc, code the word in question as prep; if no noun, code it as adv or adv:loc





